I wanted to cover this thing called the
curb cut effect, which is something that
I'm kinda fascinated with and
I hope I don't get the details wrong, but
it's a kind of an anecdotal
story that I really like.
So it's back in Berkeley, California,
I think in the 1950s, and so
a little bit before that, I think in
the 1940s, laws had started being
passed throughout the United States saying
that buildings and a lot of parks and
recreation places needed to meet some
sort of accessibility standard, right.
They needed to have ramps and rails and
certain access for certain things.
It'd become really great, but
at the time when you're out and
about on the street and
the sidewalks, it didn't apply there.
And so pretty much across the entire
country at the time curbs
did not have ramps like we know them
to have today, they just had drop offs.
I mean you still see that some places,
a curb will just kind of end
instead of having a nice ramp.
And so this disability rights advocate
in Berkeley, and I'm trying to remember
exactly what he did, but I think he went
out on his wheelchair with cement and
just dumped cement on a curb somewhere
in Berkeley so that it became a ramp.
And it was this free speech, this
expressive movement where he was like,
I'm just sick of not being able to use
this curb because people in a wheelchair
can't just, or it's a giant jump down and
it's very difficult to get up.
So he does this thing and it gets all
this publicity, should he be arrested,
was it illegal,
all these different things.
And ends up spawning this movement of
more and more folks start doing this,
kinda going out and adding these ramps
of some sort, either pouring cement or
setting up a ramp or whatever.
And this really interesting thing happens,
it starts off as this very particular
disability rights movement,
wheelchair users wanting ramps so
they can get around.
And what folks all over the country
started observing is how many people start
using these ramps.
And so you're seeing all these
parents pushing strollers, bicyclists,
skateboarders, workers pushing
heavy equipment on wheels.
All these people start immensely
benefiting from this thing, and
it spreads like wildfire, and
these ramps, these curb cutting ramps,
take off all over the country and
eventually become the absolute standard.
And the kinda anecdote there, what the
curb cut effect is is that often times if
not all the time, when you build something
to make your application, your site or
whatever you're working on, easier for
people with disabilities, you almost
always end up making it a lot easier and
a lot more enjoyable for everyone to use.
We see this in the physical world,
we see this in the digital world.
These things that get put up for
folks with disabilities, ramps, railing,
keyboard shortcuts,
better structured HTML,
all of these things that start off one
way, end up really benefiting everybody.
So I think that's a very cool effect that
I've seen firsthand a lot of times where
I'll build something, an accessibility
feature, and then I'll often hear about
folks that just are power users of
the website getting a big kick out of it.
At what point in the software
lifecycle should you be thinking about
accessibility in individual design,
in development, things like that?
That's great, I think the best case
scenario is thinking about different
things at different points.
And so, for example, at Adobe I
would often during the design phase,
there are certain things
that I would push back on.
Like, hey, this experience
is gonna be really tough for
people with disabilities to use,
is it important, is it worth it?
Is it worth the effort that's gonna
go into making it accessible or
is it something that we
can kind of do without?
Other things too, like making
sure the designs are well spaced,
like buttons are well spaced apart so
folks without perfect dexterity can
easily target them and things like that.
So there's some things for sure design
considerations, and if nothing else,
trying to be aware of what will be
a development consideration and
bringing that up early.
And then during the development stage,
I think, yeah, it's absolutely vital.
I think maybe multiple passes.
There's a lot of stuff that should just
be foundational that we'll cover today,
like using the right HTML elements or
things to avoid or
where you should add certain
ARIA labels which we'll get int.
And then there's other things too, which
is maybe after you've built it you really
wanna get in there and try it or
do some real user testing.
And so
I think maybe a three phased approach,
bring up a lot of main concerns
during the design phase for
during the initial development build,
build it with accessibility in mind.
And then always have some time for
accessibility testing,
much in the same way you
would do QA testing,
have some accessibility testing to make
sure that the things work as expected.
Does adding accessibility
information help with SEO?
It's really interesting,
so some things absolutely.
So one thing that we're gonna cover in
the next section is using semantic HTML
properly.
And things like that, a well structured
page with well structured headings and
the proper tags, can absolutely
help your site vitals, your health,
things like that.
On the other hand,
there's one area where we fight,
where accessibility engineers and
SEO engineers disagree.
So that would be, and we'll cover this,
that would be image alternative text.
So SEO users see the alternative text
as a great chance to keyword stuff for
the keywords that they want to rank for.
So cheap student loans or something like
that, regardless of what the picture is.
The picture could be a cat or
a kid graduating college and
they'll say cheap student loans.
And accessibility engineers know that that
text is the only signal that non-sighted
users will get from screen readers, and so
they really want it to be descriptive, so
kid graduating college.
So yes and no I guess is the answer.
In some ways, absolutely aligned,
in one particular way,
absolutely on kinda opposite sides.
And that comes Google starting to crawl
images and look at that text for a signal.
And so then SEO folks kinda
jumping on that and being like,
let's jam all of our keywords into that
and hope that we rank higher for that.